README.md, before:

# Community Garden

## Purpose

The purpose of the Community Garden website is to:
* develop user interest in the community garden
* encourage users to visit the community garden
* share location information
* share various means of contacting the garden
* connect users to sources of the latest event information and news

The website is targeted at people who want to learn how to grow fruit and vegetables, people who want to grow vegetables but do not have a garden of their own, people who want access to fresh organic fruit and vegetables, and people interested in activities through which they can get to know other people in the same community. 

## User Stories 

* As a visiting user of this site, I want to know what makes this community garden special so I can decide whether it is worth visiting.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know what kind of activities take place at the garden and who they are for so that I can decide whether to participate.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know the location of the garden so that I can go there.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to find news about events so that I can participate. 
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know how to receive news about events so that I don't miss out.

## Features

### Fixed Navigation Bar

The navigation bar contains a link to each page. It is fixed at the top of each page so that it is always visible and easy to find. It allows the user to easily navigate between pages, and uses color to draw the user's attention to the Call to Action ('Contact Us' button).

![Navigation bar](docs/nav-bar-wireframe.png)

### Footer Containing Links to Social Media 

The footer contains links to the social media accounts connected to the website (Facebook, Instagram, Youtube). A title appears ('Follow us on Facebook') when the user's mouse hovers over one of the icons, encouraging the user to click. These links make it easy for the user to connect with and follow the Community Garden's social media accounts.  

![Footer containing social media links](docs/footer-wireframe.png)

### Google Map Showing Location

The iframe map shows the location of the garden on Google. The user can interact with the map-zoom in, zoom out, find their current location-in order to make it easy to locate and visit the garden. 

![Interactive Google map showing location](docs/iframe-map-wireframe.png)

### Subscribe Form 

The subscribe form contains first name, last name and email input fields. Users can input this information if they want to receive news updates and information about events by email. The garden can share good information with users, keep in touch with users and publicise events.  

![Subscribe form](docs/subscribe-wireframe.png)

### Article Sharing Background and 'Why'

The 'Our Story' article shares the story behind the garden, why it was started and how it has grown over time. It includes both text and photos. It allows users to read and decide whether the values of the garden align with their own and whether they would like to become part of the garden community.

![Our Story article](docs/our-story-wireframe.png)

### 'What We Do' Section on Home Page

The 'What we do' section shares the main activities of the garden. The user can discover whether the garden will likely host activities that interest them, that they would like to participate in, or that they would like to find out more about.

![What We Do section on home page](docs/what-we-do-wireframe.png)

### 'Who We Are' Section on Home Page

The 'Who We Are' section introduces the people behind the garden. It allows the users to 'meet' them. 

![Who We Are section on home page](docs/who-we-are-wireframe.png)

## Future Features

* An events section or page sharing event details, times, days, how to participate, etc.
* A gallery page sharing photos from recent events.

## Typography and Color Schemes 

### Typography

* Montserrat is used for headings and Merriweather for body text. 

### Color Scheme

* Green is used as the base color and background color for the navigation and footer sections, and appears in all of the images. Green was chosen due to its association with nature and gardens, fitting the theme of the website. 
* Orange is used as an accent color and for call-to-action buttons as it provides a strong contrast with green.
* All background and foreground color combinations on the website meet WCAG AA color contrast requirements. Color contrast was checked using [Web AIM](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/).

## Wireframes

### Page 1 of 3: The Home Page 

![The home page.](docs/home-page.png) 

### Page 2 of 3: Our Story

![Our Story on page 2.](docs/page2-new-our-story.png) 

### Page 3 of 3: Contact Us

![Contact Us on page 3.](docs/page3-contact-us.png)

### Subscribe Confirmation Page

![Subscribe confirmation page.](docs/confirmation-page.png)

### Pages 1 and 3 on a smaller mobile phone screen 

![The home page and Contact Us pages on a small phone screen.](docs/mobile-view-homepg-contact.png)

## Technology

* HTML was used to structure the pages and add features.
* CSS was used to style the pages and features.
* Github was used to store and to share the repository.
* Gitpod was used to edit the code.
* Balsamiq was used to create wireframes during the planning phase.
* Chrome DevTools was used to check responsiveness and for debugging.

## Testing

### Code Validation

* The HTML code was validated using the [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/). No errors were found.
* The CSS code was validated using the [W3C CSS Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/). No errors were found.

<p>
<a href="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/check/referer">
    <img style="border:0;width:88px;height:31px"
        src="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/images/vcss-blue"
        alt="Valid CSS!" />
    </a>
</p>

### Test Cases (user story with screenshots)

The Home Page
1. The user opens the home page. They see the hero image and main heading. 
2. The user notices that there is more text below the hero image. They scroll down.
3. The user reads the What We Do section. They notice that there is an image below and scroll down.
4. The user reads the Who We Are section. They notice that there are social media icons in the footer.
5. The user hovers the mouse over the Facebook icon. A 'Visit our Facebook page' message appears.
6. The user clicks on the icon and is directed to the Facebook page.

Our Story
1. The user notices 'Our Story' in the navigation bar.
2. The user clicks on 'Our Story' and is directed to the Our Story page.
3. They read the heading and opening text and notice that there is an image below. They scroll down.
4. They look at the image and notice that there is more text below. They scroll down.
5. They read the text and notice that there is another image below. They scroll down.
6. They look at the image.

Contact Us -> Subscribe
1. The user opens the home page and notices the Contact Us button in the navigation bar.
2. The user clicks on the Contact Us button. They are directed to the Contact page.
2. The user notices the subscribe form.
3. The user enters their first name and clicks subscribe. A message pops up asking them to enter their last name.
4. The user enters their last name and clicks subscribe. A message pops up asking them to enter their email address.
5. The user enters their email address and clicks subscribe. They are directed to the Confirmation page.

![Hero image on home page](docs/new-home-pg.png) 
![Subscribe form on Contact page](docs/new-contact-pg.png)
![Enter first name in Subscribe form](docs/new-contact-pg-1.png) 
![Enter last name in Subscribe form](docs/new-contact-pg-2.png)
![Enter email address in Subscribe form](docs/new-contact-pg-3.png) 
![Confirmation page](docs/new-confirm-pg.png)

### Fixed Bugs

* The list items in the What We Do section appeared on top of the fixed navigation bar when they reached the top of the page instead of disappearing under it. This was fixed by adding a z-index style declaration (with high positive value) to the CSS code applied to the navigation bar.

* A white space appeared under the footer bar on the Contact and Confirmation pages when viewed at 50% in Chrome DevTools. This was fixed by increasing the size of the iframe map so that it occupied more vertical space. 

### Supported Screens and Browsers

## Deployment

### Via Gitpod

To open up the site in Gitpod, follow the following steps:
1. Go to http://github.com.
2. Open up the 'SiobhanP1/community-garden' repository.
3. Click 'Gitpod' to open up a workspace in Gitpod.
4. Enter the command `python3 -m http.server` in the terminal to open a port.
5. A small box will appear. 
6. Click 'Open in browser' to open the site in a new tab. 

### Via Github Pages

The site was deployed to Github Pages by following the steps below.

1. Open up the 'SiobhanP1/community-garden' repository in Github.
2. Click 'Settings'.
3. Click 'Pages' (located in the sidebar under Code and Automation).
4. Select 'Deploy from Branch' from the Source drop-down menu.
5. Select 'Main' from the Branch drop-down menu.
6. Click 'Save'.
7. Wait a minute then refresh the page to see the site link.

The live link is https://siobhanp1.github.io/community-garden/.

## Credits

### Images

[Boy watering](https://unsplash.com/photos/ffJ8Qa0VQU0) came from [Unsplash](http://www.unsplash.com). 
The home page background image of [tomatoes](https://unsplash.com/photos/4LiUI-Y2mI8) came from [Unsplash](http://www.unsplash.com). 
[Woman gardening](https://www.pexels.com/ko-kr/photo/7658811/) came from [Pexels](http://www.pexels.com).
[Man and woman gardening](https://www.pexels.com/ko-kr/photo/7658795/) came from [Pexels](http://www.pexels.com).

Commit message:

Add user stories for home page and our story page to README

README.md, after:

# Community Garden

## Purpose

The purpose of the Community Garden website is to:
* develop user interest in the community garden
* encourage users to visit the community garden
* share location information
* share various means of contacting the garden
* connect users to sources of the latest event information and news

The website is targeted at people who want to learn how to grow fruit and vegetables, people who want to grow vegetables but do not have a garden of their own, people who want access to fresh organic fruit and vegetables, and people interested in activities through which they can get to know other people in the same community. 

## User Stories 

* As a visiting user of this site, I want to know what makes this community garden special so I can decide whether it is worth visiting.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know what kind of activities take place at the garden and who they are for so that I can decide whether to participate.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know the location of the garden so that I can go there.
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to find news about events so that I can participate. 
* As a visiting user of this site, I need to know how to receive news about events so that I don't miss out.

## Features

### Fixed Navigation Bar

The navigation bar contains a link to each page. It is fixed at the top of each page so that it is always visible and easy to find. It allows the user to easily navigate between pages, and uses color to draw the user's attention to the Call to Action ('Contact Us' button).

![Navigation bar](docs/nav-bar-wireframe.png)

### Footer Containing Links to Social Media 

The footer contains links to the social media accounts connected to the website (Facebook, Instagram, Youtube). A title appears ('Follow us on Facebook') when the user's mouse hovers over one of the icons, encouraging the user to click. These links make it easy for the user to connect with and follow the Community Garden's social media accounts.  

![Footer containing social media links](docs/footer-wireframe.png)

### Google Map Showing Location

The iframe map shows the location of the garden on Google. The user can interact with the map-zoom in, zoom out, find their current location-in order to make it easy to locate and visit the garden. 

![Interactive Google map showing location](docs/iframe-map-wireframe.png)

### Subscribe Form 

The subscribe form contains first name, last name and email input fields. Users can input this information if they want to receive news updates and information about events by email. The garden can share good information with users, keep in touch with users and publicise events.  

![Subscribe form](docs/subscribe-wireframe.png)

### Article Sharing Background and 'Why'

The 'Our Story' article shares the story behind the garden, why it was started and how it has grown over time. It includes both text and photos. It allows users to read and decide whether the values of the garden align with their own and whether they would like to become part of the garden community.

![Our Story article](docs/our-story-wireframe.png)

### 'What We Do' Section on Home Page

The 'What we do' section shares the main activities of the garden. The user can discover whether the garden will likely host activities that interest them, that they would like to participate in, or that they would like to find out more about.

![What We Do section on home page](docs/what-we-do-wireframe.png)

### 'Who We Are' Section on Home Page

The 'Who We Are' section introduces the people behind the garden. It allows the users to 'meet' them. 

![Who We Are section on home page](docs/who-we-are-wireframe.png)

## Future Features

* An events section or page sharing event details, times, days, how to participate, etc.
* A gallery page sharing photos from recent events.

## Typography and Color Schemes 

### Typography

* Montserrat is used for headings and Merriweather for body text. 

### Color Scheme

* Green is used as the base color and background color for the navigation and footer sections, and appears in all of the images. Green was chosen due to its association with nature and gardens, fitting the theme of the website. 
* Orange is used as an accent color and for call-to-action buttons as it provides a strong contrast with green.
* All background and foreground color combinations on the website meet WCAG AA color contrast requirements. Color contrast was checked using [Web AIM](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/).

## Wireframes

### Page 1 of 3: The Home Page 

![The home page.](docs/home-page.png) 

### Page 2 of 3: Our Story

![Our Story on page 2.](docs/page2-new-our-story.png) 

### Page 3 of 3: Contact Us

![Contact Us on page 3.](docs/page3-contact-us.png)

### Subscribe Confirmation Page

![Subscribe confirmation page.](docs/confirmation-page.png)

### Pages 1 and 3 on a smaller mobile phone screen 

![The home page and Contact Us pages on a small phone screen.](docs/mobile-view-homepg-contact.png)

## Technology

* HTML was used to structure the pages and add features.
* CSS was used to style the pages and features.
* Github was used to store and to share the repository.
* Gitpod was used to edit the code.
* Balsamiq was used to create wireframes during the planning phase.
* Chrome DevTools was used to check responsiveness and for debugging.

## Testing

### Code Validation

* The HTML code was validated using the [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/). No errors were found.
* The CSS code was validated using the [W3C CSS Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/). No errors were found.

<p>
<a href="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/check/referer">
    <img style="border:0;width:88px;height:31px"
        src="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/images/vcss-blue"
        alt="Valid CSS!" />
    </a>
</p>

### Test Cases 

#### The Home Page

1. The user opens the home page. They see the hero image and main heading. 
2. The user notices that there is more text below the hero image. They scroll down.
3. The user reads the What We Do section. They notice that there is an image below and scroll down.
4. The user reads the Who We Are section. They notice that there are social media icons in the footer.
5. The user hovers the mouse over the Facebook icon. A 'Visit our Facebook page' message appears.
6. The user clicks on the icon and is directed to the Facebook page.

![Hero image on Home page](docs/homepg1.png)
![What We Do section](docs/home-pg-2.png)
![Who We Are section](docs/home-pg-3.png)

#### Our Story

1. The user notices 'Our Story' in the navigation bar.
2. The user clicks on 'Our Story' and is directed to the Our Story page.
3. They read the heading and opening text and notice that there is an image below. They scroll down.
4. They look at the image and notice that there is more text below. They scroll down.
5. They read the text and notice that there is another image below. They scroll down.
6. They notice the social media icons at the bottom of the page.

![Our Story page heading](docs/story-pg-1.png)
![Our Story article part 1](docs/story-pg-2.png)
![Our Story article part 2](docs/story-pg-3.png)

#### Contact Us

1. The user opens the home page and notices the Contact Us button in the navigation bar.
2. The user clicks on the Contact Us button. They are directed to the Contact page.
2. The user notices the subscribe form.
3. The user enters their first name and clicks subscribe. A message pops up asking them to enter their last name.
4. The user enters their last name and clicks subscribe. A message pops up asking them to enter their email address.
5. The user enters their email address and clicks subscribe. They are directed to the Confirmation page.

![Hero image on home page](docs/new-home-pg.png) 
![Subscribe form on Contact page](docs/new-contact-pg.png)
![Enter email address in Subscribe form](docs/new-contact-pg-3.png) 
![Confirmation page](docs/new-confirm-pg.png)

### Fixed Bugs

* The list items in the What We Do section appeared on top of the fixed navigation bar when they reached the top of the page instead of disappearing under it. This was fixed by adding a z-index style declaration (with high positive value) to the CSS code applied to the navigation bar.

* A white space appeared under the footer bar on the Contact and Confirmation pages when viewed at 50% in Chrome DevTools. This was fixed by increasing the size of the iframe map so that it occupied more vertical space. 

### Supported Screens and Browsers

## Deployment

### Via Gitpod

To open up the site in Gitpod, follow the following steps:
1. Go to http://github.com.
2. Open up the 'SiobhanP1/community-garden' repository.
3. Click 'Gitpod' to open up a workspace in Gitpod.
4. Enter the command `python3 -m http.server` in the terminal to open a port.
5. A small box will appear. 
6. Click 'Open in browser' to open the site in a new tab. 

### Via Github Pages

The site was deployed to Github Pages by following the steps below.

1. Open up the 'SiobhanP1/community-garden' repository in Github.
2. Click 'Settings'.
3. Click 'Pages' (located in the sidebar under Code and Automation).
4. Select 'Deploy from Branch' from the Source drop-down menu.
5. Select 'Main' from the Branch drop-down menu.
6. Click 'Save'.
7. Wait a minute then refresh the page to see the site link.

The live link is https://siobhanp1.github.io/community-garden/.

## Credits

### Images

[Boy watering](https://unsplash.com/photos/ffJ8Qa0VQU0) came from [Unsplash](http://www.unsplash.com). 
The home page background image of [tomatoes](https://unsplash.com/photos/4LiUI-Y2mI8) came from [Unsplash](http://www.unsplash.com). 
[Woman gardening](https://www.pexels.com/ko-kr/photo/7658811/) came from [Pexels](http://www.pexels.com).
[Man and woman gardening](https://www.pexels.com/ko-kr/photo/7658795/) came from [Pexels](http://www.pexels.com).
